---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 1 — The Event"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 1
---
Federal Security Director Isaac Jameson loved to watch the mill of passengers and TSA officers. He loved watching the well-oiled synergy between machines and officers who knew how to use them. It was an intricate dance. To the untrained eye, it was chaos, but Isaac saw practiced handoffs of passengers that required extra attention or the odd item in an x-rayed bag immediately cleared.

As FSD, Isaac was responsible for all aspects of passenger safety operations of the checkpoints at the airport, both passenger and baggage. He took pride in the excellence of his officers under his supervision. He did what he could to establish relations with each officer. Those were professional relations to be sure, but it was well known that Isaac was a sucker for proud moms and dads who wanted to share kid pictures. With over a thousand officers and managers, it was something of a titanic task. But his efforts paid huge dividends in the nature of morale. A happy officer was an efficient officer. There were disgruntled ones, for sure. But those malcontents weren't enough to derail the mission. Keep things moving smoothly and professionally all while keeping an eye out for things that didn't belong on an airplane.

Today promised something interesting at this particular checkpoint. Delta 24 was a customs recheck. International passengers would arrive at Greater Southwest International and clear customs. They would then need to recheck for their connecting flights, which meant going through the security checkpoint at Delta 24.

This was already a busy time, usually the flights from Asia arrived at this time. The airport's largest airline, Clipper International Airways, had added a new route, Hong Kong to Greater Southwest on their brand new Airbus A380. Luckily, Operations scheduled officer rotations with this in mind. There was an overlap between the two shifts which basically doubled the number of officers. Still, today promised to be a busy one.

The thought became pointless as Isaac's world vanished in blindingly bright light. Sharp on the heels of the light, there came a snarling, crackling boom that seemed to emanate from everywhere. Isaac felt a slight wrench, not much, but enough to know something had changed in the world around him. He didn't know what had changed, only that something had.

Normalcy reasserted itself bit by bit. His eyes were still clearing out purple after images and the ringing in his ears still echoed. Yet now he could see things and hear things.

Two thoughts flooded Isaac's brain almost immediately. The first was that somebody had set off a nuke. He dismissed it almost immediately. If there had been a nuclear bomb, Isaac wouldn't have been here wondering what was going on.

The second thought was what he was going to do now. He had thousands of scared, panicky people, including himself, that needed guidance. A mob of thousands of scared, panicky people was a volatile mixture. Nitroglycerin waiting for just the right jolt.

He reached for his radio mic, hearing the welcome click of an active channel.

"All stations, all stations," he said clearly. "Set condition four across all stations. Authentication Delta Papa Zulu."

Condition four was a step below condition five, though not a big step. Four dictated that all activities at the affected locations cease. The officers were to focus on containing any breach attempts, and, most importantly right now, keeping passengers calm. It was designed to combat a restive crowd irate at a sudden shutdown. Now, he could see fear on the faces of both the officers and passengers convinced the world had just ended. There needed some action to break the tightening grip of terror. The familiar drill of managing passenger anger would serve just as well to manage passenger fear. Right now, the passengers needed to see that somebody was still in control.

The officers of Delta 24 dropped into well-practiced roles. Scanners and detectors were secured and each lane's lead officer moved to the head of the queue to monitor their officers. The checkpoint supervisor moved to the document scan and stood on the chair to address the crowd.

"Ladies and Gentlemen," his voice projected nicely off the polished granite. "My name is Hank Risen, the supervising officer of this checkpoint. We're all confused and more than a little terrified. Unfortunately, I don't have answers right now. We are just as blind right now as you are. Please be patient and I promise you this. Whatever we can do, we will do. Let us do our jobs and please speak with any of my officers if you have a concern."

With that, he stepped from the chair and made his way towards the back of the checkpoint where Isaac was waiting. Isaac had tried calling the Airport office, but the cell service wasn't working. He put his useless phone in the holster on his belt.

"Helluva speech there, Hank."

Hank grinned though the fear shone through. Hank was solid. He'd do what needed to be done.

"Thanks," he said. "That was from my armageddon collection. What the hell was that?"

"I have no idea."

An officer approached them. Sarah Garcetti had joined the Administration a little over six months ago, but nobody told her that was a limitation. She was on the shortlist for Lead and, assuming she performed just as she did now, make Supervisor in record time.

"Yes, Sarah?" Hank asked.

The normally unflappable officer opened her mouth and closed it again as though the words that might come out would confirm that she had lost her mind.

"There's something you need to see," she said and began to walk in the direction she had come from.

Isaac nodded to Hank, the supervisor had his own area to focus on and Isaac began to follow Sarah. The wall behind Delta 24 was filled with displays of flights into and out of Greater Southwest International, to each side were stores and restaurants.

Sarah passed all of these and stopped at a large window beside a gateway. Isaac stepped beside her and opened his mouth but any question he had quickly became moot. The anomaly was glaring. It was also impossible. What made GSW such a successful airport was the Texas plains it was built upon. Huge tracts of land, flat except for occasional gopher hole, made for excellent runway placements.

Instead, what he saw were green verdant mountains, almost sheer-faced. To the right, Isaac could see a muddy, yellow river that seemed to flow towards the other side of the terminal, probably bisecting the twin columns of terminals. Looking to the left Isaac saw a wall of glassy rock. It wasn't a sheer vertical cliff, it arced to a point above the terminal. It was as though someone had taken the world's largest ice cream scoop and had taken a bite out of the mountain.

"What the hell?" Isaac said to himself.

"This is Delta thirteen," the radio cracked into the earpiece.

"Delta 13, go ahead," Isaac recognized the voice as Rahminda Gupta, the terminal manager for terminal D.

"We've got some flooding going on here and we can't reach Ops over the phone."

"Ok Bryce, I'm on my way."

Isaac pressed his transmit key. "Rahminda, I'll meet you there."

"Understood sir." Rahminda was another solid, but she obviously was relieved by Isaac's voice.

Isaac turned to Sarah.

"Thank you, Sarah, go rejoin the team."

Sarah nodded and moved towards Delta 24. Isaac turned to the nearest access door to the ramp. To get to the baggage screening area at D, you had to go under the terminal by way of a secured stairwell. Isaac buzzed himself through the door and began to descend the stairs. It was only one flight and Isaac paused on the landing. There was water at the bottom of the stairs, not a lot. It didn't cover the first step, probably ankle-deep.

"All baggage locations," Isaac said into his mic, "this is Jameson. Evacuate the ramp. Rally at the nearest gate."

Gritting his teeth, Isaac stepped into the water and buzzed himself through the final door to the ramp.

The door opened and Isaac sloshed out. His radio crackled.

"Ops calling Director Jameson."

"Go for Jameson," he replied.

"What is your location?"

"On my way to Delta 13, status?"

"We're still working on it, sir. The phone lines aren't working but we're getting in touch with the checkpoints on the individual frequencies. We're able to contact them all and they are in condition four."

"Good," Isaac paused, then sighed. Jeffrey Quinn may be a Lead officer, but there was a reason that Isaac had put him in the Security Operations Center and not on a team. The man was frighteningly efficient. Typically that wasn't a bad thing but the man seemed incapable of understanding the need for people skills. It was probably Asperger's, but Jeffrey had never bothered with a diagnosis.

"Any injuries?" Isaac prompted.

"No casualties reported, sir."

"Have the baggage locations confirmed their evacuation orders?"

"They're doing so now, sir. Jessica is handling the other radio right now."

"Good, have them report to the nearest passenger checkpoint and assist with the passengers."

"Understood, Ops out."

Officers were beginning to pass Isaac as they made their way to the stairwell. He made sure to shake hands and pat shoulders as they passed. At the end of the line, Bryce Maxwell spoke to his two lead officers, Asa Birch, who ran room A, and Mary Poland, who ran room B.

The water was above his ankles.

"Got all the animals in the Ark yet, Isaac?" Bryce grinned.

"Almost," Isaac laughed. "Sorry, but I've already got two Supervisors."

"Aw hell, I don't suppose you could demote me and I'll just kick one of the Leads out of their bunks."

"Stupid question but I've gotta ask," Isaac turned to seriousness.

"No worries," Bryce nodded back the way he had come. "That's the last of them. Asa and Mary did the count and I double-checked the count myself."

"Good."

"What the hell happened, Isaac? Did we get hit with a nuke?"

"I don't know, there are some weird things going on that I don't have answers for."

"Sure seemed like one. Bright light. A loud crash and this water," he kicked at the water, "starts seeping into our rooms."

"Have you looked outside?" Isaac asked.

"No, why?"

They reached the edge of the apron, where the terminal overhung.

"Holy shit," Bryce whispered.

Isaac let him take it in while he viewed it from a fresh perspective. They were now in a long valley. Green trees clung to steep mountainsides as far to the left as he could see and to the right, the valley curved and disappeared behind Terminal B.

"Wherever we are, it's sure as hell beautiful," Bryce said. "And look at that overhang..." Isaac looked up at the cusp of rock looming above them.

"We're going to have problems if that thing breaks off. It'd take out most of this terminal."

"One problem at a time, Bryce. First, we need to figure out what happened."

"Is that before or after you pull that rabbit out of your hat?" Bryce asked.

"I see you have looked outside." A voice spoke behind them. Isaac turned and saw a rail-thin Indian woman in a suit and slacks. Rahminda Gupta was the terminal manager, responsible for TSA operations in Terminal D.

Bryce grinned without looking behind him. "Just picking out a new vacation home, ma'am."

Rahminda rolled her eyes but otherwise said nothing. She was known to be a somewhat stuffy individual, generally not one for sarcasm. She and Bryce got along well together, though he did like to tweak her nose more often than Rahminda liked.

"What are we going to do, Isaac?" Rahminda asked.

"I don't suppose you have any ideas?" Isaac responded.

"Only with keeping morale up. Unless we can get back to wherever we've got a lot of officers who just lost their families."

"Damn," Bryce muttered. Isaac couldn't disagree. Damn indeed.
