---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 2 — Organization"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 2
---
Isaac sat at the conference table, his head in his hands. His office was wherever they had left behind. This conference room was the closest thing to privacy he could find. He was tired, more exhausted than he had ever been. The flash had only been... he checked his watch, just over five hours ago. It felt like five years.

He was also a terrified man. He raised his head and looked at his hands. They trembled, whether from fear or fatigue, probably both. Isaac crossed his fingers, gripping each hand tight enough that his dark black skin lightened at the knuckles.

He took a deep breath and lay his hands on the table, forcing his fingers to relax. He had a lot of issues to handle, wallowing in self-pity wouldn't solve anything.

At least that's what he kept telling himself. But, at the back of his mind, Rahminda's comment kept returning. It was something he desperately didn't want to think about.

His family. Right now Isaac could not let himself dwell on his family. They would, naturally, have been left behind. But, to Isaac, they might as well have died in a tornado or another disaster. He doubted that he would see his wife's beautiful face. Or walk his daughter down the aisle. Isaac slammed a lock on those thoughts. He would mourn later. Now, he had a job to do and it was a welcome distraction.

He opened his eyes as somebody knocked on the door. It opened and another man in a suit stepped in.

Brad Greene was one of the managers for Customs.

"Sorry to bother you, Isaac," he said.

"Not at all, Brad," Isaac motioned to one of the chairs and leaned back in his. He put his hands behind his head. His jacket was on the chair beside him. His shoes and socks were laid over another to dry out.

"Thanks," Brad said and sat. "How are you holding up sir?"

"Well enough," Isaac tried to sound casual, "Others have it worse than I do."

"Understood," he seemed hesitant.

"What is it, Brad?" Isaac sat up, letting his chair move forward.

"We need to set up something of a chain of command. I'm the most senior Customs officer around. Our director and assistant director were in Washington for hearings and the other managers were either off duty or on vacation."

Brad took a breath.

"You are the most senior federal officer we have right now. I'm just letting you know we're reporting to you."

Isaac grunted as though he had been punched. As it was, he already had just over five hundred and fifty Transportation Security Administration personnel to manage. Now, he also had Customs officers. He would need to consolidate the rest of the federal agents. Isaac didn't want that responsibility. But whether he wanted it or not. It was his.

"Thank you, Brad," Isaac said. "Can you coordinate with the other agencies to see what resources we have?"

"Will do, sir," Brad seemed relieved. "I'll talk to Jane over at the PD. I think she'll agree." Jane Truscott was the chief of the GSW Police Department.

"They aren't federal, Brad."

"Yes sir, but I think Jane would agree with the need to get ourselves unified. She would recognize your federal authority."

Isaac nodded and Brad left and the room was quiet once more.

Isaac hadn't considered the need for organizing. It made sense, but how feasible was it? The federal agencies apparently were already looking to him. If Brad was right, then the local law enforcement officers, LEOs, would join as well. That left two groups, the airport employees and the passengers, that were unknowns.

The airport employees could be broken into airport and airline personnel. The airline personnel would coalesce around their union and airline cliques. The airport employees and vendors were in less organized groups.

The passengers represented the greatest question mark. Most were civilians and many of those were foreign nationals. Would they join?

Isaac stood and left the room. His radio's battery had been drained dry and he had left it on the charger while he rested.

"James, I need you to go track down the airline union reps. Ask them if they could join me in the conference room when they are able to." The officer nodded and left.

"Jessica, head over to the airline catering building. Let them know that I am commandeering their entire operation, including trucks and supplies. They are to start getting meals to passengers immediately. Let me know if they have anything they need to get this done pronto."

***

An hour and a half later, Isaac was back at his conference room turned office. Papers and folders were spread out before him as he tried to make sense of the reports.

He was distracted by a knock on the door. A freckled face and green eyes poked around the doorframe.

"Ya busy, Isaac?" Jimmy O'Neil was an almost comical stereotypical Irish American. His skin was pale and his dark red hair curled fiercely if he didn't keep it cut short. If he let it grow out, it promptly turned into something Jimmy referred to as an "I-fro".

Isaac had groaned at the time, still did when Jimmy reused the tired line. But, right now, that cheesy little, dad joke level quip brought some much-needed levity.

In addition to being a good friend, Jimmy was also the airport Chief of Operations. He was the one who ran GSW.

Their friendship wasn't quite a conflict of interest, they weren't related and both of them were very careful not to cross the others financial streams. They made sure that the only relationship between the two was co-coaching their kids' little league team.

"Nothing that can't wait a few." Isaac motioned to a chair. "In fact, I'm glad you stopped by." Jimmy took his own suit jacket off and laid it across an empty chair. He pulled the chair next to it and sat.

"No problems," Jimmy said, "You've been busy. I've got the managers of the catering companies banging on my door."

"Sorry about that."

Jimmy shrugged. "I told them to pound sand."

"I doubt you put it that crassly."

"You're right," Jimmy admitted. "Would have felt nice though."

"I bet," Isaac let his grin fade. "I really had no choice, we're going to have a lot of hungry people and they have the most readily accessible food source."

"I know," Jimmy waved his hand. "And they know as well. They were already putting together snack boxes. They're pissed because your officers are messing with their plans."

Isaac grunted. His reaction had been to take charge without worrying about whether or not he was stepping on toes.

"Damn," he said. "Messed that one up."

"Not really," Jimmy shook his head. "It needed to be done. Just need to make sure we don't smash any more egos than we absolutely have to."

"Agreed. What do you think about what happened?" Isaac asked.

"I have absolutely no flipping idea. I'm not going to pretend like I do. How are we going to manage the passengers?"

"What do you mean?" Isaac asked.

"I forget how inept you are at politics," Jimmy rolled his eyes. He was right Isaac sucked at politics. One on one Isaac excelled. Move to trying to manage a mass of people and he typically reached for the hammer. He could get away with that in the established command structure of the federal agencies.

"Look," Jimmy continued. "Right now there are a bunch of scared people from all different nationalities and cultures. They aren't going to be calm forever, frankly, I'm impressed your officers have done as well as they have."

"What do I need to do?"

"Give them something to do that makes them feel that those fears are being addressed. I would recommend having each checkpoint have the passengers there select a rep to represent them."

"Look, Isaac. I know the last thing you want to do is to appear like some kind of tyrant or dictator. But, the fact is that you are the highest-ranking official means that you have the most legitimacy of anyone here. Just know when to delegate, when to not and when to ignore."

"You're right, of course. As my first delegation, you're in charge of passenger relations."

"Fair enough. I think we need to first start organizing something of a passenger senate. It doesn't have to be permanent, but people feel better when they see a path for relief. Speaking of relief, the supplies in the catering warehouses and restaurant aren't going to last more than a few days, tops."

"That's part of my job," Isaac rubbed at his temples. "We'll need to ration but don't forget we have the shops. We might be able to eke out another day or so on junk food. It won't be the healthiest of diets but it means calories and somewhat full bellies."

"Good point. We've also got a couple of Hero Flights that landed a few hours before we got hit. Most of them were waiting on their connecting flights."

Isaac grimaced. It wasn't the soldiers, Isaac was a retired marine himself. It was the optics of using military men and women to crack down on unruly passengers. They didn't need a police state. Besides they had just returned from a war zone, they deserved some rest.

"I'll talk to their commanding officer," he said aloud. "I'd prefer not to mobilize them if I don't have to. Anything else you can think of?"

"One more, we need to find some grief counselors and a lot of them. Pretty much everybody who works here has lost their entire families. Suicides are going to skyrocket."

Isaac nodded. Rahminda was right. He hadn't wanted to admit it to himself, but only the work kept him too busy to process the grief. That time would come and Isaac knew it would be brutal.

"Agreed, but let's also see about making accommodations for everybody. I'll need a census of who we have."

"On it," Jimmy said. "Maybe we could use the parking garages as something like a ready made multi-story framework. Use some rocks or something to build some walls to separate out the homes."

"Not a bad idea. Check to see if there are volunteers with survival skills that would help scout around our new home. I'll see about getting our soldiers out there as well."

Jimmy stood up, grabbed his jacket and folded it across his forearm.

"I think we've got a good start here. We also need to get the airlines on board as well. That should be interesting since the airlines and then various unions have been at each other's throats for years. We can probably expect more than one rep from each airline. One for the pilots union, one for the ramp workers union and one for management."

"Yeah, I know that you already have a ton on your plate, have anybody that can get in touch with all the airlines and get a meeting set up between everybody?" Isaac asked.

"I've got someone in mind," Jimmy said. "I'll give her marching orders when I get back. When were you thinking?"

"Tomorrow if we can," Isaac said. "I'd like to keep ahead of any panic if we can."

"Will do," Jimmy nodded and left.
