---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 3 — Passenger Perspective"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 3
---
Jade Stevens sat on the hard marble floor in front of one of the TSA's checkpoints. She and her friends had just flown in from Cancun. GSW was the customs entry point and they had been waiting in line at this checkpoint when whatever the hell hit them. There were frustratingly few answers. Jade could tell the officers at the checkpoint were just as confused. Already, Jade had heard mutterings, a low roil of discontent fueled by fear.

She had always been a peacemaker. In her little hometown of Spicer, Minnesota, she had a reputation for diffusing tense situations, usually with humor. Her friends and neighbors had urged her to run for local office and then maybe state or federal.

Politics were the last thing on Jade's mind. She had just turned 21 and wanted a few more years of freedom before she settled down.

In the now, Jade's natural ability to sense a crowd had been pegging off the charts. This was a crowd about to panic.

She had done what she could. She asked the checkpoint if they could get some of the basic comforts. At least a place to sit to put a bit of a dampener. The supervisor, Hank, readily agreed. After a bit of brainstorming, they had the idea of moving the chairs from gate areas to a space behind the checkpoint.

He then let passengers through but confined them to the area by putting officers to either side.

Three hours after the event, there didn't seem to be any further change in direction. She was getting hungry and could see hunger on other faces. Once again she talked to Hank about getting some food.

She was pleasantly surprised to hear the TSA Director had commandeered the caterers and food was being prepared. But, actually getting the food to hungry passengers was going to take a while. She had an idea. There were at least three restaurants in sight, perhaps they could donate food, snacks at least, to tide the passengers over.

All three had gone above and beyond. Not only did they agree to provide food, but they did so with more than simply snacks. They knew it was just a matter of time before their supplies were commandeered. But, more than that, there was the instinctual need to help others in need and these Texans were all too happy to help. Jade quietly spoke to Hank and they agreed as to how the meals that had been destined to their group be redistributed to fill a hole elsewhere.

The three restaurants had done a great job. They had served half portions to conserve what food they had. Luckily, American portions were such that cutting them in half still provided a comfortable, if somewhat small, portion.

Jade had organized their group to give everybody a task, something that kept them busy. Some of them served food at the buffet style line. Others bused the area to gather dishes and utensils. Another group washed and dried the dishes while a final group packed the leftovers and cleaned the area.

"Ms Stevens?"

She looked up as Hank called her name and waved her over.

"Yes Hank?"

"Just got word from my director," he unconsciously touched the radio mic. "He's putting together something like a passenger representation board and wants each checkpoint's passenger groups to select a representative. I thought you would be the ideal person for our band."

Jade paused, thinking through her response.

"I don't think that's a decision we can make, Hank," she said, "we need to let everybody have a vote here."

Hank grinned.

"I thought you'd see it like that. Still I doubt they'll choose anyone else."

"Probably," Jade shrugged. "But even if it's a formality, we can't be making decisions for others. Your director is on the right path."
