---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 4 — Military Coordination"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 4
---
It was later in the evening, at least as far as they could tell. The clocks were off and their cell phones weren't picking up any signals.

Isaac paused for a few moments and then knocked on the door.

"Enter."

Isaac turned the handle and the door slid open easily.

"Good evening, Colonel," Isaac nodded.

"Good evening to you as well sir," Colonel Timothy Powers stood and extended his hand, which Isaac took. The grip was strong and firm.

"Thank you for seeing me," Isaac sat on the other side of the desk.

"Not at all, sir," the Colonel also sat. "In fact, I was wondering who would come for my boys and girls. May I ask who you are?"

"Federal Security Director Isaac Jameson, TSA. I appear to be the most senior federal officer left. I've checked with the other agencies and none of them come close."

"And the locals?"

"The airport staff themselves report to Chief Operations Officer O'Neil. He's agreed to work with me. The airport law enforcement is on board as well."

"Which leaves the airlines and the passengers," Powers added.

"Yes, I'm working on that," Isaac leaned forward in his chair. "I need to know where the military is going to come down."

"Yours," Powers answered immediately. "Assuming you are the top dog, which I have no reason to doubt you."

"Thank you, Colonel," Isaac said. "I expected that answer but I wasn't going to assume it was correct."

"We appreciate it, sir," Powers said. "I do have a recommendation for using my boys and girls."

"I welcome it," Isaac said with feeling. "You have the most experience."

"Thank you, sir. I strongly recommend that you don't use them within the airport, especially not working with passengers."

"I'm not doubting you," Isaac said. "But I'd like to know why."

"Most of them are infantrymen that have spent a year or so in the most hostile places in the world. True, they often worked with the locals, but that was under circumstances far more dangerous than this. If things went sideways, they had the authority to return fire. Here, they wouldn't have that option. In fact, they would be unarmed."

"Why unarmed?" Isaac hadn't been expecting that.

"I have maybe a hundred soldiers here. This is a large airport so I assume we've got somewhere around four to five thousand stranded passengers. That's not an ideal force ratio."

"Odds are, one of us is going to get jumped by a mob. If he were armed, he might be able to defend himself. I doubt it, mobs have their own mass, and at the minimum, we have dead civilians, most likely multiple since the soldier won't be aiming to wound. More likely, the soldier goes down, takes a few civilians with him and a shiny M16 is now loose in the crowd."

Isaac tried not to grunt. He saw the Colonel's point and agreed with it. He'd probably have the same talk with the GSW police chief when they met.

"Agreed," Isaac said. "I actually had another job in mind for you."

"What's that, sir?" Something like excitement shone in the colonel's eyes.

"I need to know where we're at, who we have around us and what dangers are out there. I need to find more sources for food. What we have won't be enough. We need something quick."

"Understood, sir. Do we have an idea, even a rough one?"

"Not right now, I'm afraid," Isaac said. "We're in a pretty steep valley, lots of green and the river running through it looks to be a very muddy brown-yellow color."

Powers rubbed his chin in thought. "That could be a few places, but China's coming to mind right now. They've got a few rivers there that are so full of silt they call one the Yellow River because of its color. That would make things interesting. I'll put a few patrols out at first light to take a look around."
