---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 5 — Power Failure"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 5
---
If water was capable of feelings or emotions, it would be vacillating between irritation and wonder. After decades flowing in its comfortable bed, large, strange buildings had suddenly flashed into existence and quite rudely blocked its path.

The river knew how to handle things that dared block it. It began washing the soft silt out from underneath the structures. Almost immediately, they began to settle and the river was able to flow once more around the feet of the stone monstrosities.

It would have felt wonder at all of the new places it was able to flow. New areas, some deep within the ground beneath. Here the water could extract some revenge, had it felt so inclined. As it touched sophisticated, delicate electronics screens flashed and went dead forever. Electrical panel after electrical panel threw sparks and fine silt began to choke gears and motors.

But, the pièce de résistance was a building that sat by itself between the two lower roadways. Inside, twin generators thundered away like the beating hearts they were. The two monsters were the sole source of power that up-timers had taken for granted. An engineer had stopped by a few hours ago, but only to check the fuel level in the tanks adjacent to the generator building.

Had the river been capable of vengeance, this was the best place to extract that revenge. It would have cackled, gurgled, with glee as it began to rise along the door. The door was somewhat waterproof, but only against the incidental heavy rains that sometimes beat the Texas landscape. Halfway up the door, the water found the slits that allowed for ventilation. Once inside, it began to rise once more above the rubber shock absorbers.

All of that would have been true had water been able to feel those emotions. It couldn't feel hate, anger or vengeance. Neither could it feel empathy or mercy as it began flooding one generator, then the other.

***

Isaac rubbed his eyes and sat up, swinging his legs over the side of the airline cot he had been sleeping on. A quick look at his phone showed the time, 0334. Odd, he noted, the phone was plugged in but there was no charging indicator. There was another knock on the door and Isaac pushed the charging indicator to the back of his mind.

"Yes," he called out and braced himself for the flood of lights from the office outside. He heard the door open but instead of a flood of light, only the illumination of a flashlight cut through the darkness. Isaac felt his stomach sink.

"Sorry to wake you sir," Jeffrey said. "I thought you would want to know that the power seems to be out." Isaac sat for a moment, his elbows on his knees and resisted the urge to put his face in his hands.

"Is it just us in the office?" Isaac asked.

"No sir. I stepped out into the hall and the lights are out there as well. I also went to one of the windows that look down on the terminal and there was no power there as well."

Isaac nodded and actually put his head in his hands this time, his fingers rubbing at his temples.

"Also, with the power out, the doors to the office aren't secured," Jeffrey said.

Isaac had to grin. With all of the world falling apart around them, trust Jeff to be concerned about something as minor as making sure the doors were locked.

"Anything from the checkpoints?" Isaac asked.

"No sir," Jeffrey shook his head. "The radios are offline. Jennifer volunteered to go down to Delta 24 to see if she can get an idea of what's going on."

"Ok," Isaac stood. "Ray's on duty along with you and Jennifer, correct?"

"Yes sir."

"Ok, have him find Jimmy O'Neil. Jimmy probably has people looking into it, so make sure that Ray knows not to get in Jimmy's way. He's only there to report back when they have an answer."

"Will do, sir." Jeffrey said. "And me?"

"I need you to start rounding up Terminal and Screening Managers. Make sure they are aware of the situation."

Isaac didn't bother sending along orders. They would have been pointless repetitions of what they already knew needed to be done. Isaac's job now was to look the part of a fearless, competent leader and make any decisions the terminal level management couldn't make.

There was no reason that Isaac needed to stay up. The people out there needed a rested mind making decisions. But Isaac also knew that falling back asleep was pointless. He'd simply lay in the dark while his mind raced.

He slipped his shoes on. He'd already put his socks on once they had dried. He didn't worry about the jacket.

The Security Operations Center, or SOC, had emergency battery powered lighting. It was a welcome sight as Isaac opened the door. The desks were empty and the ceiling mounted projector was dark, that projector had illuminated the far wall with a status board that provided information from airline schedules to weather updates. The coolest feature that Isaac had engaged was the map of the US overlay with weather radar and icons representing realtime locations for all aircraft inbound to GSW.

He sat down and resisted the urge to turn his phone on to read an ebook stored on it or play one of the games he loved to play. Without a cell signal or wifi, the phone was simply another tool. A very useful tool, it could still take photos, serve as a flashlight or even calculate things with the calculator.

Instead, Isaac found a tattered novel sitting on Jennifer's desk. It was a classic, probably something she was reading for college. In fact, Isaac seemed to recall Jennifer taking literature classes.

This was a good one, *The Scarlet Letter* by Nathaniel Hawthorne. It was one of Isaac's favorites. Hawthorne was truly gifted with his mastery of the metaphor. Even today, readers still discussed what the letter "A" meant. Some claimed it stood for angel or ardent or some other trait that started with the letter A.

For himself, Isaac had always thought it stood for Arthur, the father of their out of wedlock daughter Pearl. It was something like a wedding band or other symbol. When Hester did take it off once, Pearl went bat crazy, as though she saw this action to be unfaithful to Arthur. But beside all that, Isaac admired the way that Hawthorne had led the reader into the story. The book started off with a short story called "The Custom House" where the scarlet letter is found in a box in a custom house attic. Isaac chose a seat under the emergency lights. In the morning he would need to make some adjustments without lights on power. But, for now, it was past him, a good book and a small sense of normalcy.

He had gotten through the first chapter when the door opened. Jennifer walked in and turned the flashlight off.

"Anything to report?" Isaac sat up, using his finger as a bookmark.

"Hank has a firm hold on 024," Jennifer pointed downwards. "Luckily, he's got one hell of a passenger leader, a young lady named Jade Stevens. Together, they're putting out a lot of fires before they can flare up."

Isaac nodded. The TSA offices in Terminal D occupied a complex of rooms above the 024 checkpoint. Originally built as a lounge for international passengers transferring to other international flights. The lounge was intended to be a way to avoid having to go through Customs and TSA screening.

However that was in the pre-9/11 world. Post 9/11 meant higher security requirements, which meant even international transfers had to go through Customs and then TSA screening. So, instead of the lounge being empty and a total write-off, the Airport leased the office to the government. The offices not only served Terminal D, but also the headquarters for the airport as a whole.
