---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 6 — First Contact"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 6
---
Ang Sui hugged the outcropping between him and where the valley curved to the left. He had been waiting there all night and most of yesterday.

He and the rest of his small village were startled by the blinding flash of light and clap of thunder, it had shaken the very bones of the mountain.

Most of the villagers returned to their tasks once they were sure the noise and light didn't proceed one of the monsoons that could suddenly appear. Ang Sui hadn't. Instead he made his way east, careful to keep looking well ahead.

The word city was the only word Ang Sui could use to describe multiple hulking buildings. The first sight had filled him with both terror and wonder, there seemed to be six large buildings and a seventh tall building, straight and needle-like. A bridge ran around the six buildings.

More interesting, the sides of the valley near the new city had been cut, shaved cleanly by an impossibly sharp blade. The Wei River had changed its course, running under a bridge on the ground and between the buildings. Ang Sui hadn't been able to leave his vantage point. As much as he wanted to approach the buildings, he dared not.

Through the night, he watched the ghastly lights of the buildings and carriage-like vehicles that ran on the bridge between them. They moved without anything Ang Sui could see pushing or pulling them. No horse, no peasants, nothing. As soon as the first carriage moved before his eyes, Ang Sui had begun to suspect something unnatural. When the night fell and those eerie lights shone, Ang Sui was convinced, witchcraft.

But, what kind? Was it good or evil?

Zhuge Liang had been a magician. It was said he was able to summon the wind during the Yellow Turban rebellion. Was this that kind of magic? He yawned and felt his eyelids droop.

He had fallen asleep at his perch and was startled awake. It was mid morning and the sun was well above the sides of the mountain.

What had startled him awake were five men in outrageous outfits. Three of them were looking in other directions. One stood near, observing and the final one had crouched in front of Ang Sui as though considering the peasant.

The man opened his mouth to speak, but the words were incomprehensible to him. He picked up one or two words he had heard when traders paused for food or rest at his small village. Living alongside the great trade route meant you were exposed to traders from places Ang Sui could hardly imagine.

The man tried again, using a different language. But it was of no use, Ang Sui still didn't understand.

The man seemed frustrated, Ang Sui felt frustrated as well. He pointed to himself.

"Caleb." He then pointed to Ang Sui.

"Ang Sui," he said, pointing to himself. He then pointed to the others.

Caleb smiled. "Brian, Mike, Rachel and Jerome." He pointed to each and they nodded when called. The man Caleb stood and spoke to the others. He was in command, but what warlord did he serve?

After speaking with his soldiers, the commander, this Caleb, returned and held a hand out, offering to assist Ang Sui in standing. Ang Sui took the hand and stood. The commander motioned to the alien buildings. His soldiers moved to block him in. It was a polite invitation, but Ang Sui knew that declining it wasn't an option. If nothing else, he would get to see this magic first hand.

The journey to the magical city took about half an hour. Ang Sui motioned to let him lead. He knew the area and knew where the difficult parts were. The soldiers appeared thankful to avoid the muck. Their strange shoes were caked in mud and the pants of one of them was wet up to the upper thigh. All of them were wet to at least the knees. As they neared the first building Ang Sui stopped as his feet stepped on something unexpectedly solid. He couldn't see it through the silty river water, but it felt oddly scaly, like the feel of a snake or a lizard. But it was far harder and refused to give when he gave an experimental jump.

The soldiers looked at him. They seemed comfortable standing on this hard ground. Indeed, they appeared to be far more comfortable than they were in the mud. Ang Sui could understand. This was far more stable. It was simply a disconcerting feeling that Ang Sui knew he would only need to get accustomed to.

The leader, Caleb, motioned to the nearest building. Ang Sui nodded and followed the one called Rachel.

He was mesmerized as they made the climb up a small but steep slope. The climb brought them out of the water and onto dry land. The sun was starting to reach its full height and the sweltering oppressive heat was familiar to Ang Sui, but the soldiers appeared to be suffering. Their faces were red and sweat plastered their faces. Ang Sui didn't doubt why. The amount of clothes they wore looked heavy and suffocating. Why would any warlord dress his army like this? Ang Sui had seen friends die from heat like this wearing much less. They turned the corner of the building and stepped on some more hard ground. This felt different than the stuff that had been under water. It seemed to be stone, though Ang Sui couldn't tell what type.

The soldiers seemed to pick up the pace as they neared a door. There was a small gap, almost like a moat between the stone and the building itself. A short bridge spanned the moat to doors that appeared made of glass. To each side a set of stairs led to whatever place was beneath the moat.

At first he thought he saw the stairs moving, but he convinced himself that was only the heat of the day causing things to dance.

All thoughts of the moving stairs vanished as the glass doors slid open, one to each side. It was as though a servant had whisked the doors open as they approached. Sui couldn't see one.

That thought dissipated as Ang Sui encountered his second miracle in as many seconds. As the inner set of doors a glorious blast of chilled air washed over him. He shivered after the heat of the day outside. More miraculously was the sense of dryness that came with it. It whisked away the sweat from Sui's neck and back. Sui paused a moment just inside the doors as they closed behind him. Around him was a room full of marvels, the stairs actually did move, and fear. The room itself was long, curving to the right without walls. Sui hadn't been able to see the curve of the building. Now, looking up close, he formed the mental image of a horseshoe.

Further down the hall he heard the bustle of a group of people. He couldn't see them from where he was.

Caleb touched his arm and motioned to a metal door on the far wall. He brought out a card and held it against the wall. The card beeped and a red light turned green. Caleb returned the card to his pocket and pulled the door open. He stepped aside and waved Ang Sui inside.

Ang Sui paused. More specifically, he balked. There was too much coming too fast. In his mind, he knew Caleb wouldn't have him do something that was unsafe. His instincts warned him to not go through another portal to someplace that wasn't proven to be safe.

Caleb only smiled patiently and called the name of one of his soldiers.

"Jerome."

The man shrugged and stepped around Sui through the door. Caleb looked at Sui and raised an eyebrow.

Sui nodded and took a measured breath before stepping through as well.
