---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 7 — The Revelation"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 7
---
Isaac tried not to tap his fingers in impatience. The man the patrol had brought in had immediately prostrated himself and no amount of coaxing could convince him to stand up or even straighten from what had to be an uncomfortable position.

Isaac had dispatched runners as soon as Colonel Powers had notified him that one of his teams had radioed in that they were bringing in what appeared to be a local.

The various representatives from the airlines and one from the passengers at large had arrived about five minutes before Lt. Caleb Faulkner opened the door for what appeared to be a Chinese peasant.

Ms. Stevens, the passenger rep, sent one of the runners to find some assistance from a Chinese native. There were quite a few at Delta 24. The Hong Kong flight had landed and quite a few Chinese nationals were stranded with the rest of them.

While they waited, Lt. Faulkner briefed the assembled reps on the events of his patrol that brought the man to them.

"From what I can tell, his name is Ang Sui," Faulkner shrugged. "Other than that sir, we haven't been able to communicate. I tried a couple of languages that I picked up in Afghanistan, but he didn't understand them."

"He seems to be completely unfamiliar with technology. He spooks at anything tech and it was a challenge convincing him to ride the escalator."

"And he about pissed himself when the Jetlink car started moving," Rachel quipped. Caleb shot her a warning glance.

The door opened and a young Asian man stepped into the room. He was young, no more than 25, and dressed in blue jeans and marbled green polo. "You needed some help?" he asked in perfect English.

"Yeah," Isaac said. "I'm assuming this gentleman here is Chinese, but none of us speak Chinese so we can't understand him."

"Or get him to stand the hell up," Captain Jameson groused. Jameson was the representative of one of the major airlines and its employees. The others in the room chuckled. Except for the prostrate man, he remained kneeling on the floor, his face pressed into the carpet.

"Sure!" the young man said. He turned to the Chinese and spoke a few phrases.

The man flinched but refused to stand. He responded to the questions, his voice muffled by the carpet.

"Wow," the young volunteer said. "You're right, this guy's Chinese. But that dialect is ancient, I'm having some problems understanding some of what he's saying."

"No problems Mr..." Isaac left the sentence hanging.

"Robinson, sir, Anthony Robinson," he replied.

Looking around the room, he chuckled. "Dad's American, mom's Chinese, I usually go by my mother's family name when I go to China to visit my family there."

"And what name is that?" Bethany Frakes, another representative for another airline, asked.

"Tsao," Robinson replied and the man on the floor flinched and rattled off a question.

"He wants to know what warlord we serve," Robinson translated.

"Tell him none," Isaac replied. "We serve no warlord."

Tony replied and the Chinese man's head raised for the first time and asked another question.

Tony looked worried. "He wants to know if we are a part of the Yellow Turbans."

Tony asked another question in Chinese. He didn't seem happy with the response and asked another. His face paled as the kneeling man uttered a two word answer.

"Dong Zhou?" Tony seemed unable to understand or accept the answer. The Chinese man only nodded.

"Shit," Tony said. "Shit. Shit."

"What?" asked Isaac.

"We are in deep shit."

"I kinda got that part," Isaac responded with some exasperation. "Please explain what the trouble is."

"Ok," Tony paused a moment to collect himself.

"And tell him to get up and take a seat," said Captain Jameson.

Tony translated and the man slowly rose from his bow but remained kneeling on the floor. He seemed comfortable, so Isaac didn't push the chair.

"Ok," Tony repeated. "The first question I asked was what year this was. He responded with an imperial name. They didn't number years in ancient China. The emperor gave the era a name and then they numbered the year in that era."

"So, I asked him who the warlord was for this region."

"Dong Zhou," Isaac asked.

"Yeah, Dong freaking Zhou. He's a warlord from Ancient China from around the 2nd or 3rd century."

"You mean to tell us that we're in China a long, long time ago?" Jameson asked.

"Yes," Tony replied. "And this is one of the worst possible times for us to have been stuck in. I would argue the worst."

"When he asked about the Yellow Turbans, I started to get concerned. If I remember correctly, The Yellow Turban Rebellion sparked in 184 AD. It was officially crushed in 185 though there was active uproar and resistance for years after."

"We're in 185?" Bethany asked.

"No, we're later than that," Tony replied. "Like I said, the Chinese of this era didn't use numbers for years, like we do. Instead, up to about 1912, they used era names, generally declared by the emperor. This fellow's telling me that we're in the sixth year of Zhongping. Roughly translated, Central Stability, which is freaking ironic. That era started in 184, our time, that makes this year 190, practically on the doorstep of the Three Kingdoms era."

Seeing the blank looks on the faces around the table, Tony took a mental step back.

"Sorry, I forget that us Americans don't have the same cultural awareness that my Chinese do. The Three Kingdoms era is one of the bloodiest in the history of China. In about one hundred years something like forty million Chinese die."

Isaac felt as though someone had punched him in the gut. Jameson summarized what the rest of them were feeling.

"Damn," he whispered. "You weren't kidding about being in deep shit."

"How bad is it?" Isaac asked.

"Dong Zhou is about as bad as you can get," Tony replied. "That's not to say the rest are good. As a lot, they make that crew in the dragon show look like Sesame Street."

"And where is this Dong Zhou now?"

"If it's 190, then that means he is either in Luoyang or Chang'an. A coalition of other warlords pushed him out of Luoyang in about April, so he retreated to Chang'an."

Tony paused a few moments then directed a question at the peasant who was now seated on the floor.

"He doesn't know where Dong Zhou is," Tony translated. "He did say that the time for planting is close, so I'm assuming that we're in May or June."

"Which means Chang'an," Isaac finished. "Does he know where Chang'an is?"

"It's off to the east a few days," Tony paused and asked a question.

"That's what I was afraid of," Tony said after Ang Sui answered. "Not only are we in a craptastic time, we're in an even worse location."

"Why?" Isaac asked.

"Because we're right on top of the Silk Road, only it's not called that yet."

"What's the Silk Road?" Bethany asked. Jade answered.

"The Silk Road is the main artery of trade for China to the west. It means that we seem to be blocking China's most valuable trade route and none of its warlords can ignore us."

Tony nodded.

"Well, a bright spot is that this era is pretty well documented. The challenge is going to be separating fact from fiction."

"How so?" Jade asked.

"This era is heavily romanticized in the Chinese culture. A book called 'Romance of the Three Kingdoms' was published later. That book is immensely important. Imagine the Bible combined with Shakespeare and you come close to the literary impact that novel has on Chinese culture."

"The problem is that the author combined historical facts with folklore and some outright storytelling. It will be helpful, but we need to keep a skeptical eye on anything coming out of it."

***

"He's scared shitless, Isaac," Tony had said after he had seen Ang Sui to a comfortable place. "The wonder of this strange place has worn off of him. Now he's in a place he can't even come close to understanding." Isaac knew that Tony was right. Frankly, Isaac was surprised that Ang Sui was doing as well as he was.

The man had proven invaluable. Once Tony could communicate the need for food, Ang Sui mentioned the villages around them.

"It won't be much," Tony had warned. "These people already live on virtual starvation rations as it is. I'd forgotten how big assholes the rulers of this time were."

"I wouldn't ask if I didn't have to, Tony," Isaac said.

"Oh, I know. And Ang Sui knows also," Tony said. "They'll want something in return though."

"How much are we talking about?"

"It's not that simple, Isaac," Tony shook his head. "We could offer all the gold in Ft. Knox and they would turn it down."

"Ok, what do they need?" Isaac asked.

"Protection," Tony responded.

"The Chinese of this time are rigidly feudal. It's something of a misunderstanding that we have up time. We see the Chinese as simply slaves. They aren't. It's past that the society they've created places the safety of the family paramount. And they've been taught that safety for the family lies in complete subjugation to a local lord."

"That's a lot to take in," Isaac said.

Tony grinned wildly. "Oh, that's nothing. There is also this concept that ancient China has called the Mandate of Heaven."

"That sounds interesting."

"Like you wouldn't believe. The emperor derives his legitimacy from the concept that his right to rule is divinely ordained."

"How is that any different than a European king?" Isaac's brain was starting to hurt.

"There are similarities," Tony acknowledged. "But there are two major differences."

"One, the pageantry and protocol associated with the emperor, with all levels of the nobility are designed to overawe the peasantry and reinforce the emperor's godhood."

"And the second?"

"The second is the most interesting." Tony chuckled. "There's a difference between the European kings' innate, inborn blessing of God and the Chinese concept of having a mandate. The difference is that a mandate can be revoked or lost."

"At which point the emperor loses his legitimacy," Isaac said.

"Bingo." Tony gave a thumbs up. "So, in concept, the people have the natural right to overthrow an emperor, heck, his whole dynasty if they feel the emperor has lost the Mandate of Heaven."

"Of course, the warlords don't agree." Isaac could feel a worry starting to creep in.

"Nope, and they aren't afraid to use armies to keep the peasants in check." Tony's face turned worried. "Eventually, there's so much social pressure bottled up that by the time it finally blows, millions of farmers, and their families are butchered. Like this Yellow Turban rebellion you mentioned."

"Yeah, that's a good example. Three brothers. I forget their names off the top of my head, began riling up the peasantry after a particularly bad famine was sweeping the land. It didn't help that a faction of eunuchs called the Ten Attendants convinced the emperor at the time, Emperor Ling, to buy another tax on top of some already hefty taxes. The older brother claimed to be a magician, but that is probably past a creation in the Romance. But, by all accounts, he and his brothers were very skilled medical men who often worked pro bono when a patient couldn't afford it."

"Sounds like a heck of a guy," Isaac said. "Any chance he's still around?"

Tony shook his head. "Nope, he was killed in 185 with his brothers not too far after. The rebellion kinda died with him, but it would take almost twenty years for the last holdout to be hunted down."

"Ugh." Isaac rubbed his eyes. "Go back to what Ang Sui wants. I assume he's wanting our assistance in resisting might come and try to oppress them?"

"Pretty much," Tony said.

"In other words, become warlords ourselves."

Tony looked reluctant to answer.

"Think about it, Tony," Isaac said. "I'm not trying to look down on these people. But, the fact is, they aren't going to understand the way we do things, or even how modern China did things."

Tony nodded, he was starting to see the logic. "That's some cold hard realpolitik."

"I know, and I don't like it." Isaac stood and walked to the window. "I also don't have a choice. I've got over five thousand people here that are going to go hungry if we can't get access to supplies. I'd rather not simply take them by force."

Isaac turned back to Tony and said, "Very well, let Ang Sui know that we will offer protection in exchange for food. Try to steer clear of making us into warlords."
