---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 8 — The Investigation"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 8
---
Cai Yong grimaced as he sank to his knees in the traditional kowtow. At 58, his knees weren't as forgiving as they once had been, nor his back as he leaned forward to place his forehead on the floor. To kowtow, literally "knock head", was a sign of great respect and Cai Yong wondered if the respect of the kowtow was wasted on the man standing beside the Dragon Throne.

The throne itself was empty. The Emperor was most likely among his concubines. Though he was only eight. One didn't imprison an Emperor, regardless of how powerful a warlord. But one could certainly strongly encourage an emperor to remain out of sight. And, if the emperor proved resistant to encouragement, accidents did happen. Even to Emperors. "Rise," said the man standing by the throne. Why he didn't simply sit on the throne was puzzling. After all, he slept in the emperor's own bed. Assuming the throne should be an easy step.

Cai Yong used the opportunity of standing to ensure that only serenity shone on his face.

Dong Zhou was a big man. Actually, he was grossly obese. Yong was surprised that Zhou's heart hadn't given out long before. Then again, many people would question whether he possessed a heart to begin with.

"Baojie!" The warlord beamed. Bojie was Cai Yong's courtesy name, only used by close friends and family. Yong immediately felt his mental guard going up.

Stratagem ten, he thought to himself. Xiao Li Cang Dao.

Hide your dagger behind a smile.

"Prime Minister," Cai Yong said, "you summoned me?"

"Yes, yes," Dong Zhou said. "The emperor and I have heard of a strange event which seems to have occurred on the road between Chang'an and Tianshui. I trust I don't need to emphasize how important that route is to the Empire?"

"No, Prime Minister, you do not."

"Good!" Dong Zhou said with gusto. "You are to take a retinue along the route to determine what it is and who it belongs to."

"As you wish, Prime Minister." Cai Yong bowed at the waist.

"I will also send Lu Bu with you as well," Dong Zhou grinned. "He grows bored and could use some excitement."

By long practice, Cai Yong was able to keep a frown off his face and a sigh from his lips.

"The Prime Minister is both generous and gracious. General Lu would be very welcome."

"That's settled then," Dong Zhou said. "I expect a report by the next full moon."

Cai Yong bowed and left the audience hall.

Of all the Generals, Dong Zhou would burden him with an ignorant, arrogant fool. As a fighter, Lu Bu was without equal. He had yet to lose a duel. Other than his military prowess, Cai Yong saw absolutely no other redeeming quality in the younger general.

Cai Yong knew the reason that Dong Zhou had sent his favorite general along. The Prime Minister's adopted son was meant to keep an eye on Cai Yong lest he try to slip away to rejoin his studies in the south.

Cai Yong had tried multiple times to retire, but Dong Zhou had refused each time. He needed Cai Yong to go examine this new anomaly, but he wasn't going to let the old man out of his sight. If only his own scrawny old neck had been the only thing at stake.

Cai Yong would have gladly left and taken his chance. But, it wasn't that simple. Dong Zhou knew where his family was and had threatened to kill each and every one of them if Cai Yong tried to retire. With his family as hostages, he dared not provide even the least appearance of leaving.

"General Cai!" An arrogant voice called out to him. It dripped disdain off of the title. True, Cai Yong was a Left General of the Household and was due the title, but using it, especially by the brash youth, was something of an insult. Cai Yong was a scholar, not a warrior.

He let his face slide into neutrality out of habit. He could not have thought less of the boy, even if the young man were the greatest warrior in China and the prime minister's foster son.

"Lu Bu," Cai Yong gave a brief nod of the head.

Lu Bu was a tall youth, easily topping most of the men around him. He moved with a lithe grace that screamed of death. His reputation for violence was second to his rank stupidity. Lu Bu wasn't dull, but muscles had replaced brains a long time ago. When he wasn't fighting he was drinking. And when he was not doing either, he was wenching.

"I hear we are to have a grand adventure," Lu Bu said. "We get to see what little it takes to scare peasants."

"I'm sure they will be truly awestruck with you leading the van, my lord."

"No, no, my old friend," he slapped Cai Yong on the back. "I will let you take the lead. You are far better than I to confront old wives tales and superstition."

The two commandants behind Lu Bu laughed and Lu Bu grinned impudently and turned to leave.

Cai Yong closed his eyes and did some mental exercises while his temper flared. He may be a scholar, but even scholars had some modicum of pride. Lu Bu would be well to remember that.
