---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 9 — The Assembly"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 9
---
Isaac stood at the podium and tried to feel as much optimism as he could. It was tough under these circumstances, but he had to try.

He watched the small group of people file in. These were the representatives of everybody in the airport. There were two from each airline, one from management and one from the ramp workers. There were two from each of the passenger groups at the nineteen TSA checkpoints. They hadn't decided on whether or not the federal entities would get a rep. Isaac was inclined to say no. Any dealings with them was policy right now and he needed to get the civilians settled down first.

Isaac raised his hand to get the attention of the buzzing crowd. He made sure to speak loudly and clearly, without power, there was no convenient mic and speakers to help.

"I've asked you here as chosen representatives of various factions, airline and airport employees and passenger groups. This is intended as a meeting to bring you up to date. I know there are a lot of scared people who want answers. I'll give you what I can."

"From what we've been able to figure out, we're somehow in China in the year 190 AD."

There was a general buzz as the reps whispered among themselves. Notably, there was little panic in those voices.

The entire airport knew that something supernatural had happened. Being in China in 190 seemed par for the course.

Isaac let the hubbub continue for a few minutes before taking control back.

"We've been able to secure a supply of food, though it means tight rations. We came at the beginning of their growing season, so we'll have to hold on until harvest."

"Which brings us to our next issue. The price for all of this food is our pledge to protect them. Our portion is going to come out of what would normally go into paying their taxes. When the warlord in charge of this region can't collect his taxes, he's not going to be in a kind mood."

"Great," a voice said. "We've been here three days and already we're getting involved in foreign wars."

There was a general mumbling of agreement. Isaac quickly took control again.

"And who are you?" The question came across more confrontational than Isaac had intended but the man didn't seem to mind.

"Abe Blake, sir," he said. "Picked by the people of A-12."

"Thanks, Mr. Blake," Isaac nodded. "I understand where you're coming from and why you feel that way. I'll admit that I share your feelings. It turns my stomach to think that we're going into this situation. Unfortunately, we don't really have a choice."

"That's what they said about Iraq and Afghanistan." Abe groused.

"Agreed," Isaac said. "But let me illustrate a few points that may change your mind."

"Sure," Abe sounded reluctant. "But I can't promise that I'll agree."

"Fair enough," Isaac paused for a few moments to collect his thoughts.

"One," he held one finger up. "We're in a situation that none of us have any clue how to handle."

"Two, resources are critically restricted. We came back with just over fifty-five hundred souls. Even with rations, we only have enough food for a week, tops."

"Three, our best chance of obtaining more food is from the natives here."

"Four, I'd prefer that we trade with them for the food rather than simply take it by force."

Abe nodded emphatically and Isaac's estimation of the man edged up another notch.

"Five, since we aren't simply going to take the supplies, we need some form of currency that we can barter with."

"You don't have to dumb it down, sir." Abe grinned. "I'm a smart enough redneck to follow big words." The seated reps chuckled.

"Sorry," Isaac responded and mentally shuffled his presentation.

"Ok," Isaac continued, "what passes for nobility around here are called warlords. They make Machiavelli blush. There are some worthy ones, but most are willing to sell their mothers for political gain."

"So when they don't get their tribute," Abe said, "they're going to be looking for their taxes and examples."

"Yep," Isaac said, "and that's not to mention that whatever brought us here plopped us right on the Silk Road."

There was dead silence while the reps processed it.

"So, regardless of what we want to do," another rep said, "just controlling the most lucrative trade route of ancient times is going to force a conflict whether we want it or not."

"Pretty much," Isaac said.

"Well, I guess that answers my concern," Abe said.

***

"Mr. Blake," Isaac had finished the briefing and wanted to talk to Abe Blake.

"Yessir," Blake stepped out of the flow of traffic.

"I wanted to let you know that I appreciate your reservations."

"I don't know if I should take that as an honest sentiment or condescension," Abe looked dubiously at the director.

"It's honest appreciation, Mr. Blake."

"In that case, it's Abe," the stout man extended his hand. "Never was a fan of Mister and Missus."

Isaac shook his hand, noting the firm grip.

"Ok, Abe," Isaac said. "I want to talk to you about a position I need filled."

"How can I help?"

"Please, walk with me," Isaac led them into a quieter part of the room.

"Your questions brought up some things that I hadn't considered before."

"How so?"

"It reminded me that we, the U.S., had a bad habit of exerting military power where it shouldn't, or at the very least without due consideration."

Abe held a hand up in defense. "I'm not a pacifist or a never-war type," he said. "I just don't want young men dying for no reason."

"I promise, Abe, that never crossed my mind. I understand the need for restraint."

"Unless there is the need to go kick some very deserving ass," Abe grinned. Isaac reflected the grin. He was confident that he and Abe were on the same page.

"What I need is somebody to remind us to exercise that restraint. Us federal officers tend to think in direct action. I need someone to put their hand up and make us ask ourselves if we really need to get into spats."

Abe still seemed reluctant.

"I don't know, Isaac," he said. "I don't have any experience in the military. The closest I came was flunking out of recruitment."

"And that actually works in your favor, Abe. I'm starting to realize that whatever happened to us, there's no going back. All six thousand of us are stuck with each other in a time where our only strength is our unity. That means we have to create a new society. The only reason that I'm 'in charge' is that I'm the most senior federal officer among us. The rest of the federal level agencies and local law enforcement departments decided to back me up."

"I can't exert command over the civilian passengers like I can with the agencies. It's only by some quick thinking and level heads that we've avoided riots. I don't doubt they will come, but I'd prefer to postpone that as long as possible."

"I can see that," Abe said. "Where do I come in on this society building scheme of yours?"

"I'd like to call it oversight," Isaac replied. "But to be honest, there will be times when I need to ignore your advice."

"I won't be a token."

"I promise that you won't. I'll give serious consideration to your concerns and will provide specific rationale when I feel the need to contradict you. If I can't clearly and effectively communicate why we need military action, then perhaps we really don't need the action in the first place."

"I can see that," Abe said. "I'm not sure that I'm happy about the inability, or oversight, to keep you from something I feel is really stupid."

"I understand," Isaac said, "but, if what I'm hearing of this time and place is accurate, I can't risk being hamstrung when we can least afford it."

"That sounds an awful lot like a tyrant in the making," Isaac could almost hear the hackles rise in Abe's voice.

"That's because it almost is," Isaac admitted. "Tyranny is the rule here. Warlords didn't have to justify their actions or be subject to oversight. They commanded and others obeyed. The only check on their power was a more powerful warlord. We'll be dancing on a fine edge between freedom and tyranny. There will be times that I will have to project immediate and unwavering power. Any weakness will be exploited."

"Damn," Abe whistled. "So, I'd be something like your conscience?"

"Something like that," Isaac said. "You'd be my National Security Advisor and on my cabinet. You'll have unrestricted access to me and any information you think is necessary."

"Can I think on it a few?"

"Sure," Isaac said. "I'd suggest having a talk with Tony Robinson. He's half Chinese and very familiar with the culture. He can give you answers to almost anything from this time period. In fact, he's kinda my unofficial Secretary of State."

"I'll take you up on that advice." Abe said.
