---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 10 — The Arrival"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 10
---
Cai Yong pulled back on the reins of his horse as Lu Bu held up a hand to halt the column. Cai Yong had been half dozing, half lost in thought, and had lost track of his surroundings. The sudden halt had brought him back to the present and he could see what had caused Lu Bu to stop.

And how could anyone not see the massive buildings rising out of the yellow mud? The walls of the building were only a shade or two lighter than the mud and a bridge ran across the gap.

Cai Yong made his way forward to push past the speechless military fops that Lu Bu surrounded himself with to join an equally dumbfounded general.

"I don't believe that I'm familiar with this particular wives' tale, General Lu," Cai Yong couldn't resist the easy and probably dangerous barb. Thankfully, the arrogant young man didn't seem to hear it.

A shame, he thought to himself. To waste a worthy bit of sarcasm on such a dull wit.

"General Lu?" Cai Yong tried to subtly attract Lu Bu's attention, but the general seemed unable to draw his eyes away.

"General Lu!" he tried louder and more forcefully.

"Yes, minister Cai?" Lu Bu ripped his gaze back to the older Cai Yong.

"Might I offer some small counsel as to how to proceed?"

Lu Bu nodded curtly.

"Sun Tzu once said that when you suspect an enemy trap, send a smaller force to spring the trap while the larger force awaits the maneuvers of the enemy to determine his next move."

Lu Bu nodded sagely and Cai Yong resisted the urge to smile. Sun Tzu had said no such thing. But, Lu Bu didn't know that; the man was an ignorant lout, barely better than a peasant himself. Yet, the advice, such as it was, seemed sound enough and the name of one of China's greatest generals from antiquity was enough to lend credence to his words.

"My lord, I propose that I continue on with a small guard. You would remain here, outside of the trap. I am the more disposable of the Prime Minister's generals should the worst happen. The world can live without Cai Yong, but the loss of Lu Bu would devastate your foster father's heart and deprive him of his most able general." Cai Yong waited while Lu Bu processed his way through the logic. He was confident that Lu Bu would take the counsel. It gave him justification for what he really wanted to do. Lu Bu really wanted to not go anywhere near these strange buildings. Cai Yong was providing a way to save face and still appear in command. The advice had an even more pleasant consequence for Cai Yong. It let the older general leave Lu Bu behind, granting at least a modicum of independence. That freedom was worth any amount of treasure.

"That is worthy advice, Minister Cai," Lu Bu said with exaggerated gravity. "I fear for your safety and I can hardly spare soldiers. I'll need to keep them should the trap spring."

"I understand my lord," Cai Yong bowed. "I accept those risks as one must to effectively fulfill the wishes of the Emperor and his Prime Minister."

Lu Bu turned and began shouting orders and Cai Yong paused a few moments while the two men that Lu Bu had detailed to accompany him prepared to set off. Cai Yong knew this route, not well, but he had traveled between Chang'an and Tianshui a few times. It normally wound its way on the south side of the river. About half-way was a small village that would host travelers for an hour or so of rest before resuming their journeys.

What he had never seen on this route were the buildings that thoroughly blocked the route. A traveler would need to cross to the north bank to get around. Luckily, there seemed to be something of a strange-looking bridge across a radically redirected Wei River.

Cai Yong paused a few moments to contemplate his next move. He had no notion of where to go next. Any of the buildings seemed likely, none stood out from the other, except for the tall spindly one at the center. But that had the look of a watchtower rather than a place where Cai Yong would find answers.

The building ahead of him seemed as good as any. It would be a somewhat difficult path, the lower level appeared to be submerged. But, there was a sharp incline of what appeared to be dirt to an upper level. Perhaps from there, he would have better information from which he could make a decision. Nudging his mount forward, he glanced to the sides to see if they would follow. They were and they seemed to be more in wonder about what lay before them than in fear of what dangers it might hide.

Cai Yong shared those feelings. The awe was buzzing about him as they made their way to the incline. Far above him, a bridge wrapped its way around this building then around the next before disappearing from view. A loud, commanding voice barked at them. Cai Yong didn't understand the words but the command was clear. Stop. He pulled his horse to a stop and made sure his companions did the same.

"Make no moves for your weapons," Cai Yong commanded.

Three people stood at the top of the incline, their dress was unfamiliar resembling the tunic and pants of the peasantry. But the similarity was passing at best. Whoever this was, those were not the clothes of a peasant. The clothes were a mottled green and tan that whirled in a mad cacophony of patterns.

It was what was held in their hands that gave Cai Yong pause and gave the orders to his escort. What these men held could only be weapons, what kind was something Cai Yong was unable to answer. But crossbows were regularly used and shared many of the same characteristics as the weapons in their hands.

They waited patiently as two of the three descended the incline. The third remained up top, scanning both his party and the river valley behind them. They stopped near Cai Yong and pulled a card from a pocket.

"My name is Caleb," the man read from the card. Cai Yong winced. He was unfamiliar with the dialect. Whoever wrote that sentence on the card must have known that and had tried to reduce any sentences to their most elementary state. The second problem was the absolutely atrocious butchering of what he read. Chinese was a tonal language where words had different meanings based on the tone of voice used. And the soldier had butchered each word.

"Cai Yong," he pointed to himself.

"Thank you," the man really was doing his best and Cai Yong felt a rising sympathy. "We have an interpreter on the way, please wait with us."

He gestured to a shaded spot near a pillar below the bridge above. Caleb stood with them as they dismounted and Cai Yong handed the reins of his horse to one of his guards.

Caleb seemed generally curious. He tried to make small talk, clearly frustrated by his inability to communicate and using this opportunity to learn and practice.

It seemed as though the sun had barely moved when a young man, Chinese by appearance, approached. Unlike the soldiers, this man was dressed in far fewer clothes, a simple, odd tunic and pants. The shoes on his feet contrasted with the far more sturdy looking boots on the feet of the soldiers.

"Greetings, My lord Cai Yong," the man gave a bow. His accent was much better, almost perfect, but the words themselves had a weird quality of their own. "I am Tsao Anthony, but we are not so formal here, please call me Tony."

"May Heaven smile upon you, Tony," Cai Yong bowed deeply. "I bring greetings from the Light of Heaven, His Imperial Majesty Emperor Xian of Han and his Prime Minister General Dong Zhou."

"I thank you for your welcome and for the greeting of the emperor and prime minister." Tony gave an equal bow. "We are not a formal people here, so please forgive any perception of offense, there is none intended."

"Thank you for your counsel, Tony," Cai Yong said. "My courtesy name is Baojie, I would be pleased if you used it."

"Thank you, Baojie," Tony said. "Please follow me."

"To where?" Cai Yong asked.

"To meet with our leaders," Tony motioned to the door into one of the large horseshoe-shaped buildings. "This building is called terminal B. I'm afraid it will be a bit of a walk."

Cai Yong felt like a youngster first seeing the imperial city. Where there was opulence there, here there was an alien, mythical air to the room. There were people of all races milling about. A few were carrying bundles out of this building into another building. This new building was mostly open with two or three tiers that Cai Yong could see. From his vantage point, he could see people making stone walls. He mentioned them to Tony.

"They are setting aside places for new homes, Baojie." Tony said. "We have a lot of people that need to make homes."

"Who are you people?" Cai Yong asked in wonder.

Tony seemed hesitant.

"I think that it would be best if we spoke to the entire council first." Cai Yong nodded though his mind whirled. He wanted nothing more than to grab Tony's arm at each new sight and eagerly ask about it.

Instead, he changed the trajectory of his thoughts. He needed to find out exactly how these new players fit into the game. Who were they? What was their goal? Is that goal for the good of the Empire? More importantly, was this place a sign? Cai Yong was noted for his ability to interpret signs and dreams, but this one threatened to exceed even his talents.

Was this a reflection on the Mandate of Heaven? Did it confirm the Emperor as holder of that mandate or did it mean that Emperor Xian had lost it by manifesting this monstrous city and across the Silk Road? A major artery in China's trade to the west.

And, what if the Emperor had lost the mandate? Six years ago, a few million peasants had been convinced that Emperor Ling had lost his mandate. Cai Yong himself had warned the emperor of the dangers the signs had foretold. Surely the signs should have been evident to anyone, even those without the gift. Floods along the rivers, ruined crops and famine hadn't been enough to break the emperor from under the influence of the ten eunuchs that called themselves The Ten Regular Attendants. The emperor may have sat on the Dragon Throne, but it was ten castrated men who ran the empire.

Cai Yong had barely escaped the deadly intrigue of Court culture. He had left the imperial city for his estates in the south. He'd promised to himself that he would never leave and to die happily during his studies. That promise had lasted for twelve years until the death of Emperor Ling and Dong Zhou assuming the regency over a very young Emperor Xian. The only thing that had brought Cai Yong out of hiding had been a none too veiled threat by Dong Zhou to wipe out his clan. Cai Yong had no doubts that the pig would do just that. They were hostages against his good behavior.

They reached the end of this building and Cai Yong could see another building, larger than this one. From the walls strange tubes or tunnels spread out like the legs of an insect. He looked back at the sides of their own building. Similar legs protruded from their own.

But, most marvelous of all were the vehicles that were attached to many. They were long cylinders, probably tubes with protrusions from the sides like the wings of a bird.

"We call those ban ji or airplane," Tony said from beside Cai Yong.

"What is their purpose?" Cai Yong asked. "They have wheels, so they must move."

"They fly through the air," Tony replied.

Cai Yong raised his nose. "It is in poor taste to mock an elder with untruths."

"My apologies," Tony said. "There was no mocking and untruthfulness intended. Those do fly, have you noted the wings?"

"I have."

"If one can generate enough speed, those wings will lift the airplane into the air."

"I find that difficult to believe, Tony," Cai Yong was still skeptical, but he no longer felt as though Tony was exaggerating to him.

"I understand, Baojie," Tony used Cai Yong's courtesy name.

"I am not the best to explain it. Perhaps after we speak to our leaders, we can find someone who can explain it and we both can learn."

Cai Yong bowed his head, thankful for the young man's tact.

"Very well," he said and Tony led the way.
