---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 11 — The Cabinet"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 11
---
Again Isaac found himself waiting in the conference room with the rest of what he thought of as his cabinet. Abe Blake had agreed which brought his cabinet up to nine. He had the spots filled that he thought they needed.

Darrell Pemberton had been the chief pilot for Clipper International, the largest airline at GSW. He was also a pragmatic man. Darrell had discussed the demarcation between the airline personnel and the civilians. The biggest concern that Darrell had was a forming caste system with the airlines on one side and others on the other side.

Isaac understood and even agreed. He had taken the wings off of his collars as an example to the other pilots. He and Bethany Frakes, the manager of another airline, were working on integrating the two populations. But, Isaac needed Darrell on his cabinet for the man's organizational skills and pragmatic mindset. Darrell had suggested something in the line of preserving what uptime technology they had. Isaac agreed and Darrell assumed the position of Director for Uptime Technology. His job was to ensure they could retain what they had. He didn't keep the tech out of local, down-time hands. In fact, having some up-time tech loose in the world could be a good thing for them. Darrell's job was to preserve what they had and adapt or integrate down-time tech as needed.

Sitting next to him was Bethany Frakes. She had been the station manager for Eagle Air. She was also the Director of Housing and Health Services. Her job was to oversee the housing arrangements for everybody at GSW. A part of that was also organizing sanitation and medical systems. She had protested that she wasn't qualified. Isaac had disagreed, Bethany had paid her way through college as a part-time paramedic. He had pointed out that, as director, she didn't have to actually perform medical services. She only needed to have a basic understanding of the medical realities to make a system work.

Yet, in Isaac's mind, there was certainly something of a token factor. Not a full token, he wouldn't have offered her the position if she hadn't had the skills. And certainly not as a woman. Isaac had decided on Bethany because he needed another voice from the airline community. What he and Darrell had said was completely accurate, but the reality was that there was still a divide. Both Darrell and Bethany would be seen as representatives for the airlines regardless of their official positions.

Next to her was Abe Blake. He had agreed to the position of Director for Foreign Affairs. His role was to be an impartial voice when it came to interacting with the natives that may include serving as a restraining influence to foreign conflicts to level-headed solutions to how up timers interacted with downtime natives. His position overlapped with Tony Robinson as Director of State. But that was what Isaac had wanted. They didn't have much room for error at this time. They needed to have more than one set of eyes on things at a time.

Seated next to him was Jane Truscott. As the chief of the GSW Police Department, she had been the natural pick for Director of Justice. She oversaw both the law enforcement and judicial aspects. Jane would have preferred to keep the two branches separate and independent of each other but Isaac had overridden her. They would look at separating them in the future, but, for now, they needed a streamlined, consistent legal system. They couldn't afford a crisis right now.

She was talking to the man beside her. Colonel Timothy Powers nodded at some point she was making. Like Jane, Colonel Powers was the logical choice for his position. In his case, it was the Director of Defense. He was, after all, the most senior military officer that had been brought back. That made him the de facto commanding officer of their military.

He and Jane had worked well together from the very beginning. They had established strict boundaries. If it was inside the Jetlink track that ran around the airport, Jane's people were in charge. If it happened outside, the Colonel's boys and girls would handle things.

He was already making plans for increasing the size from 234 troops. But he wanted to wait until the populace had settled down enough that they could get a sense of what was available.

Next to him, Jeffrey Quinn stared intently at the papers on the table in front of him. He absently twirled a pen in his right hand while his left hand moved down the pages. He seemed oblivious to the world around him and probably was. Jeff's ability to focus was something truly impressive, almost scary.

Jeff was the youngest member of his cabinet and the Director of Logistics. That meant he was responsible for keeping track of stores and provisions. If they needed something, it was Jeff's job to get it. The papers in front of him were probably details of their food situation.

Next to him was the second youngest by about 4 months. Jade Stevens was one of the first he had asked to join. She was smart, charismatic, and, under the All-American cuteness, hard as nails. She was the Director for Public Relations and genuinely cared for the civilians she worked for. However, she had an iron will when she needed it.

She and Jeff had had a truly epic fight over their food supply and rationing. In true Jeff fashion, he had taken what they had, performed some calculations, and presented a proposal for rationing that he thought was perfectly rational. Jade had disagreed, the people needed more than what Jeff had allotted to remain functional. Jeff had replied that the numbers represented federal nutritional guidelines. Jeff's manner had hit the wrong nerve and Jade had told Jeff what he could do with his nutritional guidelines. And it went downhill from there.

The most amusing part, outside of the cold realities was that Jeff hadn't appeared offended in the least. He gave as good as he got but once they reached an agreement he seemed to have forgotten about the heated words.

Darrell had also noted a different look in Jade's eyes after their exchange. It was as though she had expected simmering resentment. Jeff's lack of offense defused her own and she didn't seem to know what to make of it.

Finally, Jimmy O'Neil leaned back in his chair with his hands clasped behind his head. He was also an easy choice. In fact, it would have been criminally negligent to have not appointed him as Director of Infrastructure. As the former GSW Airport Operations Manager, nobody knew the ins and outs of the large airport. His role was to maintain the former facilities and work with both Bethany and Darrell to get services organized.

The empty seat at the table was reserved for the last member of the cabinet, Tony Tsao, the Director of State. As a Chinese American, Tony could speak the language and had a far better insight into the native down-timers. He was organizing any other ethnic Asians into something of a diplomat corps. Thankfully for the airport, the new Airbus A380 flight from Hong Kong for Clipper International had arrived before whatever hit them. The flight had a naturally high proportion of Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Vietnamese passengers, including one Tony Tsao.

It was a good team, Isaac decided. For a band that hardly knew each other, they seemed to meld well. He hoped that unity would last.

The door opened, breaking into his thoughts. Tony held the door open and waved a middle-aged Chinese man through. Isaac stood to welcome him and the rest of the Cabinet followed suit. The man paused as though unsure what to make of the gesture.

Isaac took advantage of that pause to evaluate the man. There was a clear difference in caste between this man and Ang Sui. Ang Sui, for all his intelligence, was a peasant, untrained and skilled only in the farmer's trade.

This man, by contrast, exuded education and refinement. His clothes were far more elegant than Ang Sui's rough tunic and pants.

"Ladies and Gentlemen," Tony said, "And Jade." He grinned at Jade who, for her own part, simply stuck her tongue out at Tony.

"This is Minister Cai Yong," the man gave a small bow. "He is a representative of His Imperial Majesty, Emperor Xian of Han and his Prime Minister and Regent Dong Zhou, the morally decrepit."

"I hope you don't plan on speaking with the natives like that," Isaac said with an implied reprimand.

"No Sir," Tony said. His face grew more serious as he recognized the disapproval.

Good, thought Isaac. He can't be playing loose like that. Not when too many lives depend on his ability to show the maturity they needed.

"Thank you," Isaac said and tried to take the sting from his words. "I believe you were going to say more before I so rudely interrupted."

"Yeah," Tony smiled in appreciation. "So, from what I gathered from talking with him is that Dong Zhou sent him and another general by the name of Lu Bu to see what we were and probably if we could be subjugated."

"And where is this Lu Bu now?" Col. Powers asked.

"Master Cai said he left Lu Bu a few miles up the road. The general balked at seeing us. Cai Yong offered a way for Lu Bu to save face and not continue here."

"Scared of our airport?" Jimmy O'Neil said.

"Not in the way we think of it. Lu Bu is a very well-known and celebrated general. He was unbeaten in single combat and he was one of the most fearless men of this time."

Tony paused to take a sip. He quickly spoke to the native and turned back to the cabinet.

"Sorry, I was just reassuring him that we hadn't forgotten about him and we weren't ignoring him." Isaac looked at Cai Yong. The man was looking around the room and seemed content.

"As I was saying, Lu Bu may have been fearless, he wasn't the brightest crayon in the box."

"I see," said Jade. "He just wasn't able to process something this enormous and his hesitancy wasn't so much fear as it was indecision."

"Bingo," Tony said. "And people like him detest indecision more than fear."
