---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 12 — Government Structure"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 12
---
In the hour that followed, Tony arranged for a guide and a room for their native visitor. He returned and sat in the empty chair and Isaac transitioned to a full meeting of his cabinet.

"Since we're all here anyway to welcome Minister Cai, we might as well get some work done."

There was a polite chuckle around the table.

"Tony, I'd like to hear what information we have on Cai Yong."

"There's not much really," Tony said. "I've been cramming both the Romance and the Records in the last week. But remember that the Romance is about 30% author bullshit."

"On the whole, Cai Yong is one of the better figures of this time. He was born of substantial means and very much preferred his studies over politics. Prior to his current gig, he spent twelve years on his estates to the south, all dedicated to his studies. He was actually recruited decades ago, but he basically pretended to be sick so he could go back to his books."

"So, why isn't he there now?" Darrell asked.

"When Dong Zhou seized power last year, he sent for Mister Cai. Initially, Cai refused until Dong Zhou threatened to wipe out his clan."

"Not exactly the stuff loyalties are made of," Abe said.

"True, but Cai was a bit unusual. For example, when Dong Zhou is assassinated in 192, his body is thrown into the street, and mourning was forbidden. Fun fact, legend says that they stuck a wick in Dong Zhou and the warlord was so obese that his body burned for three days off the fat."

"Back to the history, Cai Yong violated the law by eulogizing Dong Zhou. His reasoning was that Dong Zhou, though absolutely detestable, was a noteworthy and powerful man and history demanded a record of his life."

"Bet that went over well," Isaac said.

"Like a lead zeppelin," Tony grinned. "He was arrested and thrown into prison. He requested that he be able to write down the events, but was turned down for the same reasons they arrested him. They were doing their best to whitewash Dong Zhou from history."

"Cai Yong would end up dying in prison later that year. The minister who put him there eventually regretted his decision."

"But, by that time it was already too late," Jane Truscott finished.

"Pretty much," Tony nodded. "He was a smart, talented man. One of his descendants would become a famed poet and writer in her own right."

"Thank you, Tony," Isaac said. "Feel him out, perhaps he could be a friend at court. Lord knows we need one."

"Will do."

"Our last point of business is to discuss our path forward, specifically what kind of government we want."

Isaac looked around the room, many still seemed torn between options.

"I'm assuming we're going with democracy, a republic," Abe said. He seemed confused that there was any doubt.

"I don't think that's the best plan, Abe," Tony said.

"That whole warlord thing we talked about?" Abe asked.

"Yeah," Tony turned to the rest of the table. Most hadn't heard this aspect yet.

"The problem is," Tony began to explain, "that democracy isn't even a concept that this era recognizes. There may be some informal local elections but they are nothing that we are used to."

"The problem is continuity of leadership. Even in our time, diplomacy was somewhat chaotic. Having what amounts to a complete change in government every four or eight years is disruptive at the best of times. Add to that there is virtually no way to make long-term plans."

"The warlords on this end don't have to stand for elections. That lets them plan long term since they have power for life and their counterpart does as well. In fact, a great general named Cao Cao was famed for planning years or even decades into the future."

"I don't think that's gonna fly, Wilbur." Jimmy said. "You're talking a full tyranny with a 'for life' leader. The Conservatives in this airport would go up in flames. To be honest, I'd probably join them. We fought a war to get rid of this king business."

"I don't know that we have a choice," said Bethany. "I agree that we need to have principles. However, what good are those principles when there are a few tens of millions out there and just shy of six thousand of us here?"

"I'll grant you that," Tony nodded.

"But death or no death, I won't support what amounts to a king."

Isaac rubbed his eyes. It was late and he could see the echoes of exhaustion on each face around the table. None of them were getting enough sleep.

"Then we're at something of an impasse," he said. "I don't see a feasible way that we can get past that fact. We need the long term stability a monarch provides."

"Just make the term length ten years," Jeff said without looking up from his papers. Isaac reminded himself that Jeff wasn't oblivious to the world around him.

The room was silent for a few moments while everybody tried to process Jeff's solution.

"That could work," said Jade. "If we're looking for stability ten years is a long time in the game of politics."

"Tony?" Isaac said.

Tony thought a few moments longer. "It could work. The reign of some of these warlords can be pretty short. Dong Zhou spent only three or four years before Lu Bu stuck a spear through him. Most are longer, but ten years is a good place to start."

"With a one-term limit," Abe said.

"If I may sir," Powers said, "I would suggest that we take something of an approach like Jane and I have."

"An internal and an external split?" Jimmy asked.

"Something like that. Inside of the tracks we have a traditional republic that we're used to. While outside, whoever we chose handles managing the warlords. The external, call it federal level, would have control of the military, but that military would be expressly forbidden to operate within the city proper. In here, they become civilians."

"So, a mayor in here elected every so many years, but at a far shorter term," Isaac mused.

"Jimmy?"

Jimmy scratched at the stubble that had begun to show.

"I suppose that could work," he said finally. "They'll want something equitable to what we had, so that will probably mean a Congress and all of that. But that can wait a few to hash out the differences." "That sounds good. Could you, Colonel Powers, Jimmy and Jade sit down and draft a proposal that we can review before we put this before the people?"

Jimmy nodded.

"Anything else?" Isaac asked.

"Just a couple more items," Powers said. "The more we learn about this place, the more convinced I am that we need to fortify this place. As it is, we have virtually no defense. I'm assuming that the armies here can get pretty big?"

Tony nodded.

"Yeah, two to three hundred thousand are not uncommon, there are some stories that claim armies of over a million."

"What do you have in mind, Colonel?" Isaac asked.

"A wall," Powers replied. "We need to build a wall."

"Pardon the pun," Bethany said, "wouldn't that be a tall order?"

"Yes. For us. We have a finite number of up-timers to work here. The operative term here is up-timers."

For a second time that evening, absolute silence hung in the air around the table.

"Are you suggesting that we use native labor?" Tony asked.

"To put it bluntly, yes." Powers showed no signs of backing down. "The only questions are, do we use said labor? And if so, how do we employ it?"

"Were you thinking about piling stones up under the Jetlink tracks?" Jimmy asked, trying to change the subject.

"Exactly," Powers nodded. "The rails would offer very satisfactory ramparts."

"Those details can be worked out at a later time." Isaac dragged the conversation back. "Tony puts up some important questions."

"Sorry," Jimmy said. "You're right. Just really don't want to look down that path. We're screwed no matter what decision we make. I vote we do use natives to help build the wall. Otherwise, we simply won't get the wall done in a reasonable timeframe with just up-time resources."

"I hope I can assume that slavery is out of the question?" Darrell said.

"Absolutely!" Isaac said very strongly. Around the room, heads nodded emphatically. That was one evil that wouldn't be a part of this history.

"Which means we pay for their services." Isaac said. "Which leads to how are we going to pay for their services."

"Include them in our society," Jade said and Tony nodded.

"Give them a stake in our society by bringing them in."

"We're already buying the food with protection, but we buy their labor with the idea of including them in a society. Far more equitable than they have now." Tony said in tones of approval.

"What if we framed it as part of that Mandate thing you told us about, Tony?" Abe suggested.

Tony chewed on his bottom lip as he thought.

"We could, but I don't think that's the best idea."

"Why not?" Abe asked.

"Using the Mandate of Heaven to justify mass labor and loyalty comes too close to what the warlords today use to maintain power. As we incorporate our new residents, we're going to look like hypocrites when they come to realize we don't lay into the concept of a Mandate."

"Good point," Abe said. He had a touchy personality if somebody seemed to butt heads with him. Luckily, Abe knew this and had learned enough to control his temper until the other side had a chance to explain. As long as that side gave a reasonable explanation without condescension, Abe was generally quick to cool down and admitted his error.

"I don't think that implying the system itself has the mandate would be a problem," Isaac said.

"How do you mean?" Abe asked.

"Claiming a mandate is pretty much a given, correct Tony?"

"Unfortunately yes," Tony replied. "It's how they conceptualize legitimacy."

"Thanks," Isaac nodded. "How about we transfer the mandate from a specific ruler to a societal concept. Heaven doesn't smile down on us Americans, but the idea of democracy." Isaac paused and looked around the table.

"Damn," he said, "I just noticed something. We're all Americans on this council. Not one of us is from another country."

"Holy shit," Jimmy said. "You're right. We've been making decisions based on the way us 'Murikans do it."

"Yep, And the same considerations go for them as for the natives. We need to incorporate them into the rest of us. None of that Apartheid bullshit. They are equals and will be treated as such."

"Going to pull an Alexander the Great and have us marry the locals?" Darrell asked only half-poking.

"No," Isaac replied. "But I would like to encourage it where we can. I, for one, will plan on marrying a native woman to show our resolve."

Heads around the room nodded. Most of them had left husbands and wives behind. They were still in mourning and Isaac wished that he could give them the time they deserved. Unfortunately, the world wasn't going to give them that time and Isaac wanted to plant the seed so, when the time demanded it, they wouldn't be caught unaware.

Isaac deeply loved his wife Mary, but she was gone, left behind. He would always love her and his last breath would say her name. In a way, that made the idea of a political marriage easier. He didn't have to love his new bride, the act itself would be enough to seal any alliance.

"Okay," Isaac said. "Jade, I know that I'm putting a lot on your shoulders, but I need you to talk with the passengers. Let them know that we realize that we made a mistake in not including non-Americans on the council. We're working on fixing that."

"No worries," Jade smiled. "I am the Director for Passenger Relations. I'll feel out the longer-term leadership while I'm at it."

"Only at the federal level," Jane Truscott spoke up for the first time, "we'll still be doing reasonable terms for the locals."
