---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 13 — Cultural Primer"
world: greater-southwest
book: the-incident
order: 13
---
Tony waited patiently until the members of the cabinet entered and took their seats. The last to enter was Abe Blake. Once he sat, Isaac cleared his throat for attention. It wasn't really necessary. The room was already grave quiet.

"Thank you all for coming," he said, "I've asked Tony to put together something of a primer lesson on current Chinese culture and norms. Take it away, Tony."

Tony swallowed as ten pairs of eyes turned to him. He typically didn't get nervous at public speaking situations. But, this wasn't typical and Tony was responsible for providing information that would shape policies and decisions.

"Thanks Isaac," Tony cleared his throat. Not to attract attention, but to try, unsuccessfully, to free the tension at the back of his throat.

"The first, and most important thing to know about Chinese culture is to forget everything you know. What we see as culture is something Hollywood bastardized beyond recognition."

***

"The concept of honor doesn't really exist in the Chinese people. There is the concept of shame or losing face, but that is a standalone, not the polar opposite. If honor was a thing, then 99% of the warlords here would have disgraced their ancestors into oblivion. What they fear is failure and the shame that comes with it. Success forgives a lot of failings. As long as they are winning, honor is out the door."

"Second, the family is the absolute core of the Chinese minds. The family name is actually before the given name. So, our friend Ang Sui, Ang is his family or clan name and Sui is his personal name."

"Third, many Chinese have what are known as Courtesy Names. They're kind of like nicknames with baggage. It's considered rude to be called by your full name by somebody of your own generation. Elders use the full name. Those who are younger or of a lower station will use the rank. I would go something like General Ang or Minister Cai."

***

"Fifth, the emperor is deeply revered by all Chinese. It's why the warlords, for the most part don't simply take the throne for themselves. They use the emperor as a tool while they exert the power."

"Would the people rise up?" Bethany asked.

"More specifically, the warlords would," Tony replied. "Yuan Shu will try to proclaim himself emperor in a few years from now. Virtually every warlord marched against him. He ended up fleeing to his brother Yuan Shao to the north. He didn't make it, dying of some disease on the way there."

"Surely there have to have been a few overthrows," Abe said.

"Absolutely. The founder of this dynasty, the Han dynasty, was a man named Liu Bang. He overthrew the Qin Dynasty and became emperor Gaozu in 202 BC."

"Cao Cao's son Cao Pi would force the current emperor, Emperor Xian to abdicate in 220, about thirty years from now. In those, the situations were very different than Yuan Shu's attempt. With Liu Bang, the Qin dynasty had pretty much fizzled out by 206 BC. There was a period of four years when everybody was fighting everybody else. Liu Bang came out on top."

"For Cao Pi, the empire would split into three kingdoms, Wei, Shu and Wu. There was simply too much chaos the warlords couldn't band together."

"Then again, any objections would appear as hypocritical. Liu Bei would declare himself emperor of Shu in 221. This would be followed by Sun Quan founding Wu in 222."

"Holy hell," said Abe, "that's a bucket of snakes."

"You have no idea, Abe," Tony chuckled. "And that's watered down, I won't bore you with the rest. The point is that, yes, rebellions do happen but rarely succeed. The warlords know that they have to walk a fine line else the other warlords will ally. In fact, Dong Zhou was run out of Luoyang about six months ago by an alliance led by Cao Cao."

"Are we going to have to face them?" Col. Powers said.

"Not as an alliance," Tony said, "after they took what was left of Luoyang, then natural suspicion and distrust took hold again and the alliance collapsed. Dong Zhou probably planned on that when he fled to Chang'an."

"You mentioned something about Dong Zhou dying before too long," Isaac said. "What kills him?"

"Lu Bu," Tony said. "One of the generals in the city has an amazingly beautiful daughter. He gets her to charm both Dong Zhou and Lu Bu. Dong sleeps with Diaochan and she runs to Lu Bu in tears at how Dong Zhou had raped her. Lu Bu expressed his displeasure by putting his spear through Dong Zhou."

***

"That's cold," Abe said. "Used his own daughter."

Tony shrugged. "It's the way things are done here."
