---
layout: chapter
title: "Chapter 2 — Longstreet's Vigil"
world: ashverse
book: the-match
order: 2
---

Longstreet's Vigil - Sitting Up With the Dead

---

July 2, 1863 ~ 00:00
Schmucker House
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania


John Walter stood in the doorway to the parlor of the Schmucker house.  Professor Schmucker's old walnut cased mantle clock ticked in the deathly quiet like a caisson funeral drummer.

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

The generals and their officers had begun arriving at around half past two in the morning, John Walter had glanced at the clock as soon as he heard the first officer's spurs dig into the porch outside the open door.  By ones or by more, they gathered in the hall outside of the parlor, their body heat adding to the stiffling Pennsylvania night.  The smell of horse, gun oil and sweat mixed with the all too real sense of fear and panic held tightly reined by years of discipline.  

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

He stood guard, one hand on the doorway and one hand unconsciously on the hilt of his sword.  Longstreet's orders had been brutally clear.  No one, No one, was to be admitted into the parlor without his explicit say-so.  Lee had been taken ill, that was the only word that was to be allowed to spread.  

He hadn't meant to imply anything, that he was perfectly willing to draw that sword in defense of the mourner behind him.  That was the exact feeling that radiated to any aide, surgeon or well-wisher that might invade this temporary sacred ground. 

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

Early growled.

Ewell paced, his heel and peg-leg rapped in counter-time with the clock.

Hood sat like a stone, his mournful eyes locked onto something only he could see.

None dared to push past.

Behind John Walter, James Longstreet, Old Pete, sat in vigil, holding the hand of a man he loved most in this life.

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

"You remember Manassas?  The first one?" Longstreet's voice was almost startling in the quiet.  It was the first time the man had spoken in hours.  John Walter had been watching the clock.  It wasn't a loud voice, barely above a whisper.  But in the silence, it shouted.

"You had to keep me from charging the Yankees.  We had whipped them something fierce and I was a young pup, hot to finish the bastards."

"But, you told me, 'James, they are beaten.  We have nothing in which to pursue them.  You will have your chance on another field, on another day.  Let them consider this loss for a few days.'"

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

The ticking seemed to change in John Walter's mind.  From a single drummer's tap, it began to take the sense of a reviewing line of the dead.  Each tick was a footstep of a dead soldier, come to escort their commander home.  Longstreet gave voice to the voiceless, but this was a review for the dead. The living could wait.

"Remember that god-awful mess at Seven Pines?  Joe Johnston had the army back then and I took the wrong damned road.  We had a chance, a real chance to end this early.  Even you said it was a good plan.  We lost over six thousand boys that day."

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

"Remember Sharpsburg?  We had our backs solid up against the Antietam Creek.  My coat had so many holes in it and our boys were dying in windrows.  I don't know how we held, but Stonewall and I held.  You asked me about my command afterwards and I remember my exact words to you, 'General, my command is able to fight again, but it is not able to retreat.'"

Longstreet shook his head.  "So much blood and only Hill coming down from Harper's Ferry saved us that day."

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

The review of the dead lasted for what felt hours, but John Walter wasn't watching the clock any longer.  He was listening to the recitation of victories and defeats.  Fredericksburg's frozen hills, the sunken road running ankle-deep, Malvern Hill's cannon smoke so thick men fired blind, Chancellorsville's pine thickets burning like torches and Stonewall Jackson's ghost giving a final salute, John Walter had little doubt that if Longstreet could have named each and every dead soldier, private or officer, he would have.

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

"I'm sorry Robert,"  Longstreet's voice returned to the present.  "I can't convince myself that a flanking assault is the wisest course of action here.  If we could turn the southern flank, yes, we would have those heights, but that gives whoever they replaced Hooker with a chance to take them right back from us.  We just need to get around to the south, find somewhere defensible."  Longstreet argued with Lee's ghost.  "We make them come to us."

Tick.

Tick.

Tick.

"Major?"  

Despite himself, John Walter jumped, realizing that Longstreet spoke directly to him.  

"I presume the generals are here?"  The voice was tired, but almost distant.  The general's mind was focused on something else.  John Walter glanced at the clock.  Hours had faded and the face read almost four in the morning.  The crow of a cock welcoming the coming dawn intruded and the dead finished their escort.

"Yes Sir?"

"I believe we have an army to lead.  Spread out the maps on the table, I need to see the terrain.  Not the local maps only, I need all we've got between Harrisburg and Virginia.  We'll probably have new orders to be issued immediately."

"Back to Virginia, sir?"

Longstreet shook his head and tucked Marse Robert's hand under the rebel gray blanket over his chest.  The vigil complete.

"No, that defeats the whole purpose of this campaign, why we're here.  I need those maps.  Quickly!"

Longstreet rose and moved to the door.  The generals who were sitting, thrust to their feet and began to crowd around the door as John Walter stepped back.  

"General Lee is dead?"  Ewell asked, the nervous energy turning into something more anxious, mirroring John Walter's anxiety.

Longstreet stood in the door and nodded at the gaggle of generals.  He could issue these orders himself.

"Yes."  Longstreet confirmed almost gently.

Hood's eyes seemed to glitter despite his wounds.

"Are my boys turning Yankee flank like we talked about yesterday?"

"I don't know yet, General." Longstreet said.  "Let me look at the maps and see what options we have.  Major Sorrel, do we know who replaced Hooker yet?"

"No sir."  Major Moxley Sorrel, Longstreet's Chief of Staff said.

"Very well, let's plan on an aggressive one, Warren or Hancock perhaps, and hope they give us a cautious one like Meade."

Longstreet moved to the maps that John Walter quickly spread on the table of the Schmucker house. He selected a map, a regional one that seemed relatively complete, and traced the roads with his finger.

"If we swing south, around these hills..." His finger moved southeast, then curved back. "Force Meade to abandon this position, move toward Taneytown, Westminster...  But where?"

"South Mountain. Ten miles southeast. The gaps there are defensible. We fought there in '62. Turner's Gap, Fox's Gap. Good ground."

"Sir," Sorrel raised a diffident hand, inviting attention.  Longstreet nodded.

"What was our objective marching north?"

Longstreet paused. That was the question, wasn't it? The one he'd been circling without quite asking. 

"To give them hell in Pennsylvania," Early said, "And to give Virginia a much needed respite."

"Major, are you suggesting that we should return to those objectives?" Major General Lafayette McLaws asked.

Sorrel nodded politely but firmly.

"Yes sir, I am.  The Yankee's gift-wrapped a nice army here for us, but our objective on this campaign wasn't to defeat an army.  It was to apply pressure and make the North yowl."

A silence hung in the house, only broken by the ticking of the clock in the room behind them.

"General Longstreet, I believe the Major to be correct.  Finding defensive ground south of here would be grand, and it keeps us marching on Washington..."  McLaws let his voice trail.

Longstreet traced the route again, more slowly this time. Southeast. Toward Washington. Again.

His finger paused. Something about that direction...

"No, that's..." Longstreet seemed to be wrestling with a cognitive dissonance, something wasn't quite adding up.

"Damn." Longstreet whispered like a hanged man given a last minute reprieve as the pieces clicked.

"No, General Hood." Longstreet's voice was gentle but firm. He turned the map for Hood to see.  "That's a trap.  Even if we were able to take these two hills, that leaves us on the wrong side of the Union army.  As Major Sorrel has pointed out, we're not here to fight."

"And that means we can't get trapped south," McLaws said. "And if we can't hold there, or they don't accept a battle there, we starve here."

"Exactly!"  Longstreet was as animated as John Walter had ever remembered the reserved general.  "That means we have to be able to manuvuer north.  If we do turn the flank to the south, then they just nudge us back south as we try to march on Washington.  We'll be back in Virginia before the month is out."

"God Almighty," John Walter murmurred under his breath.  Longstreet was right.  The whole staff had been so focused on winning the fight they had in front of them that they lost the larger strategic picture.  Turning that flank might give a morale boost, but in the end, it didn't solve the problem, giving Virginia a break and putting pressure on Washington to stop this insane war.

"Gentlemen, verbal orders for now, I'll get you written ones soon."  Longstreet rolled the map up and used it as a pointer at the window at the lightening sky.  "I need your boys on the road as quickly as possible if we're to steal a march on the Union."

"General Ewell, you are to withdraw as quietly as possible.  We march north to Harrisburg.  We face the army about and march by the left flank on the Mummasburg–Carlisle–Harrisburg road with all possible speed.  General Lee wanted us to be a thorn in the side of the Yankees and, by God, we're going to turn them green with rot."
